.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.TH SP2P 1 "2025" "sp2p" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sp2p \- secure peer-to-peer file transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sp2p send
.RI [ flags ]
.IR file | folder | ... | \-
.br
.B sp2p receive
.RI [ flags ]
.I CODE
.br
.B sp2p version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sp2p
transfers files directly between two computers using WebRTC.
Files are end-to-end encrypted; the signaling server never sees file contents.
.PP
The sender generates a short code that the receiver enters to establish
a direct peer-to-peer connection.
If a direct connection cannot be established, a TURN relay is used
(with user confirmation unless
.B \-allow\-relay
is given).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B send
Send one or more files or folders.
A share code is displayed for the receiver.
Use
.B \-
to read from stdin.
.TP
.B receive
Receive files using the share code provided by the sender.
.TP
.B version
Print the version and exit.
.SH SEND FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-compress " level"
zstd compression level, 0 to disable, 1\(en9 for increasing compression.
Default: 3.
.TP
.BI \-name " filename"
Filename to use when reading from stdin.
.TP
.B \-allow\-relay
Allow TURN relay connections without prompting.
.TP
.BI \-server " url"
Signaling server URL.
Default: value of
.B SP2P_SERVER
or
.IR http://localhost:8080 .
.TP
.BI \-url " url"
Public base URL for share links.
Default: value of
.B SP2P_URL
or the server URL.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose diagnostic output.
.SH RECEIVE FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-output " dir"
Output directory for received files.
Default:
.IR . " (current directory)."
.TP
.B \-stdout
Write received data to stdout instead of saving to a file.
.TP
.B \-allow\-relay
Allow TURN relay connections without prompting.
.TP
.BI \-server " url"
Signaling server URL.
Default: value of
.B SP2P_SERVER
or
.IR http://localhost:8080 .
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose diagnostic output.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SP2P_SERVER
Signaling server URL (overridden by
.BR \-server ).
.TP
.B SP2P_URL
Public base URL for share links (overridden by
.BR \-url ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sp2p/config.yaml
User configuration file.
If
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is not set, defaults to
.IR ~/.config/sp2p/config.yaml .
.PP
The config file sets persistent defaults for command-line flags.
CLI flags and environment variables take precedence over config values.
.PP
Example config file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Default signaling server
server: https://sp2p.example.com

# Public base URL for share links
url: https://sp2p.example.com

# Default compression level (0=disabled, 1-9)
compress: 3

# Allow TURN relay without prompting
allow-relay: false

# Default output directory for received files
output: ~/Downloads

# Always show verbose output
verbose: false
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Send a single file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p send photo.jpg
.fi
.RE
.PP
Send multiple files:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p send file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Send a directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p send ./my-folder
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pipe data from another command:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tar cf - src/ | sp2p send -name src.tar -
.fi
.RE
.PP
Receive a file using the share code:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p receive abc-def-ghi
.fi
.RE
.PP
Receive to a specific directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p receive -output ~/Downloads abc-def-ghi
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pipe received data to another command:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p receive -stdout abc-def-ghi | tar xf -
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a custom server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p send -server https://relay.example.com photo.jpg
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sp2p\-server (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Zyno Consulting <oss@zyno.io>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/zyno-io/sp2p/issues>.
