.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.TH SP2P-SERVER 1 "2025" "sp2p" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sp2p\-server \- signaling and relay server for sp2p
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sp2p\-server
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sp2p\-server
runs the signaling server that coordinates peer-to-peer connections for
.BR sp2p (1)
clients.
It serves the web UI, handles WebSocket signaling, and optionally provides
TURN relay and TLS termination.
.PP
The server never sees file contents \(em it only facilitates the initial
connection handshake between peers.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-addr " address"
Listen address.
Default:
.IR :8080 .
.TP
.BI \-base\-url " url"
Public base URL for generating share links and configuring CORS.
Default:
.IR http://localhost:8080 .
.TP
.BI \-config\-dir " dir"
Directory for persistent data such as ACME certificates.
Default:
.IR ~/.config/sp2p .
.SS TLS
.TP
.B \-acme
Enable automatic TLS certificates via ACME (Let's Encrypt).
The domain is derived from
.BR \-base\-url .
.TP
.BI \-acme\-email " email"
Contact email for ACME certificate registration.
.TP
.BI \-tls\-cert " file"
Path to a TLS certificate file (for manual TLS).
.TP
.BI \-tls\-key " file"
Path to the corresponding TLS private key file.
.SS TURN Relay
.TP
.BI \-turn\-servers " urls"
Comma-separated list of TURN server URLs
(e.g.
.IR turn:turn.example.com:3478 ).
.TP
.BI \-turn\-username " user"
Static TURN username.
.TP
.BI \-turn\-password " pass"
Static TURN password.
.TP
.BI \-turn\-secret " secret"
Shared secret for generating ephemeral TURN credentials.
Mutually exclusive with static username/password.
.TP
.BI \-turn\-ttl " duration"
TTL for ephemeral TURN credentials.
Default:
.IR 5m .
.SS Reverse Proxy
.TP
.B \-trust\-proxy
Trust
.B X\-Forwarded\-For
headers for rate limiting.
Enable this when running behind a reverse proxy.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
All flags can be set via environment variables:
.PP
.TS
l l.
Flag	Variable
\-addr	SP2P_ADDR
\-base\-url	SP2P_BASE_URL
\-config\-dir	SP2P_CONFIG_DIR
\-acme	SP2P_ACME
\-acme\-email	SP2P_ACME_EMAIL
\-tls\-cert	SP2P_TLS_CERT
\-tls\-key	SP2P_TLS_KEY
\-trust\-proxy	SP2P_TRUST_PROXY
\-turn\-servers	SP2P_TURN_SERVERS
\-turn\-username	SP2P_TURN_USERNAME
\-turn\-password	SP2P_TURN_PASSWORD
\-turn\-secret	SP2P_TURN_SECRET
\-turn\-ttl	SP2P_TURN_TTL
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
Run a local development server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p-server
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run with automatic TLS on a public domain:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p-server \\
    -base-url https://sp2p.example.com \\
    -acme \\
    -acme-email admin@example.com \\
    -addr :443
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run with manual TLS certificates:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p-server \\
    -base-url https://sp2p.example.com \\
    -tls-cert /etc/ssl/sp2p.crt \\
    -tls-key /etc/ssl/sp2p.key \\
    -addr :443
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run behind nginx with TURN relay:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sp2p-server \\
    -base-url https://sp2p.example.com \\
    -trust-proxy \\
    -turn-servers turn:turn.example.com:3478 \\
    -turn-secret mysecret
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sp2p (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Zyno Consulting <oss@zyno.io>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/zyno-io/sp2p/issues>.
